Who are the Taliban? What do they stand for?
What do they want obviously year by year, this changes.
So what is the nature of this organization?
Can they be a legitimate, peaceful, kind, respectful,
uh, government sort of holder of power or,
or are they fundamentally not capable of doing so?
Yeah, I mean,
the briefest answer would be that they are a clerical
slash military organization. Um,
they have, this is kind of a
imperfect metaphor, but years ago, a German scholar,
he's the term caravan to describe them.
And that has some attractive elements because
different people who joined the Taliban for different purposes at different
times, but today, and people tell us, you know,
scholars who know more about the women than I said, listen,
the Taliban is this kind of hodgepodge of different actors and people and
competing interests.
And I think so we have a lot of scholars I listened to there. It's,
polycentric, it's got people in the city and that city and so on.
I think actually I was always very skeptical. How do they know this? I mean,
this is an orientation that doesn't want you to know, um,
where that money comes from and so on.
But I would say now that we have a clear picture of what has happened,
I'd say they are a astoundingly well-organized clerical military
organization that has a very cohesive
and enduring ideology, which is quite idiosyncratic.
If we zoom out and continue the conversation we're having about Islam and how we
think about radicalism and, you know, who's drawn to what, um,
people throw different terms around to describe the Talan some use a
term that links it to a kind of school of thought born in the 19th century,
in India, the Deobandi school. Uh, but if you look at their teachings,
it's very clear. Now I think that these labels it's like saying, you know,
you're an MIT guy. Well, what does that mean? I mean,
MIT is home to dozens of different potentially kinds of
intellectual orientations, right? I mean, attaching the name of the school.
Doesn't quite capture. I mean.
It's complicated. I mean, actually MIT is interesting because it's,
I would say MIT is different than Stanford, for example. Yeah.
I think MIT has a more kind of narrow. Yeah. I hear.
You. Um, about analogy, algae, my apartment. Well.
No,
it's interesting because I would argue that there's some aspect of a brand like
Taliban or MIT,
no relation that has a kind of,
uh, interact like the,
the brand results in the behavior of the like enforces a kind of behavior and
the people and the people feed the brand. And like there's a loop.
I think Stanford is a good example of something that's more distributed.
There's sufficient amount of diversity in like all kinds of like centers and
all that kind of stuff that the, the, the,
the brand doesn't become one thing MIT, so engineering it's.
Okay. Scratching my te let's scratch it to you.
Cause I think Stanford's more like MIT than, than, than you might imagine, but,
uh, yeah.
Isn't Alwan, isn't it pretty, I don't think there's a diversity.
So yeah. So sorry. So just to rephrase, so, so people say, oh,
the day Bondi school, I'm like, what does that mean? But the tailbone are,
they're an ethnic movement.
They represent a vision of punched in power,
right?
Positions are people who are quite internally diverse who actually
speak multiple dialects of Pashto who reside across the
frontier of [inaudible]. And I've kind of done. There are postions to
live all over the planet, right? This
community, Moscow, California, everywhere. Right? So it's a global diaspora of
sorts passions have a kind of geological imagination so that lots of machines
can tell you the names of their grandparents, great grandparents and so on. And that's kind of
a
, there's a sense of pride in that posture. Language is a kind of core element of that identity, but it's not universal. So for example, you can meet people who say, I am Pashtoon, but I don't know Pashto.
So as you, as you claw away at this idea, it's a morphous.
It also means different things, different people at different times.
So saying the tub on our posture and requires lots of qualifiers
because lots of patients will say, no, no, I, I, I have nothing to tell Bon.
I hate those people. You know,
so the Taiwan tried to mobilize other passions with limited
success, but their core membership is almost exclusively Pashtoon and they say,
no, no, we represent Afghans. We represent pious Muslims.
And so in recent two, three years, they've gone further to say, no,
we have an ethnic groups. We have whose bags we have Tajiks we have Hazara is.
And in the north of Afghanistan in recent years,
they did do a bit better at drawing in people who were very disaffected because
the government and they were able to diversify their ranks somewhat.
But if you want to say August 15 and who they've appointed,
what language they've used, how they've presented themselves, it's clear that,
you know, they are Pashtoon,
they are male and they are extremely ideologically
cohesive and disciplined, I'd say, right?
So I think that a lot of the poly centrism, blah, blah, blah,
some of that stuff was a way to fight a war. Um, they are,
they are fundamentally, you know, a guerrilla movement.
They see themselves as kind of pious Robin hoods.
The rhetoric is very much about taking from the rich take from the privilege
given to the, before being on the side of the underdog, fighting against evil.
And so, I mean their, their, their bag, if you like their thing,
their central theme, their brand is about public morality.
And so their origin story go much 9 94 is that they interceded,
they broke up a gang of criminals who were trying to rape people.
And so there's a ranching kind of like emphasis on like sexuality
and on, on poem morality. It really being the core of like, you know,
we're going to restore order and,
and pump morality and how that translates into governance is something they've
never sorted out. I mean, how do you run a banking system?
If you're in touch priorities are really about, you know,
the length of beard and then,
and then their path to power and a kind of abstract sense. I mean,
a lot of that was very much driven by, um,
if you like propagating the prompts of martyrdom. And that sounds,
I don't mean to say that in a way that to make it sound ridiculous,
make sound like it's, um, you know, a moral judgment. It's simply a fact,
it's a fact of their appeal that they promised young men who have known
nothing else, but studying in certain schools, if at all,
but they've known, fighting, and they've known,
they've known victimization and this isn't, I'm not asking for like,
sympathy for them. But I think the reality is a lot of, uh,
we know about the kind of foot soldiers is that they,
they lost families and bombings, um, in airstrikes in night raids,
you know, I mean, orphans have always been a stream, um,
living in an all male society, uh, not knowing girls,
not knowing women,
hearing things from outside about places like Kabul as it has always been this
kind of urban, rural dimension. It's not, it's not just that,
but I think there's a,
there's a whole imagination that being Taliban captures.